docs: restructure working PR (#4866)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/fundamentals/2-types/4-tuples.md

```motoko no-repl
let users: [(Text, Nat)] = [("Motoko", 25), ("Ghost", 30)];
```

This structure efficiently represents a collection of key-value pairs without requiring a dedicated [record](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/types/records) type.

## Extracting values using switch

To access the name of the first [record](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/types/records) in the tuple using best practices, a [`switch`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/control-flow/switch) expression should be used.

```motoko no-repl
let users: [(Text, Nat)] = [("Motoko", 25), ("Ghost", 30)];

let firstUserName: Text = switch (users[0]) {
    case (name, _) name; // Motoko
};
```

The array `users` contains tuples, where each tuple represents a user with a [`Text`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Text) name and a [`Nat`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Nat) age. `users[0]` retrieves the first tuple in the array. The `switch` expression extracts only the name while ignoring the second element using the wildcard pattern (`_`). This ensures clarity and type safety when working with tuples inside collections.

> <img src="https://cdn-assets-eu.frontify.com/s3/frontify-enterprise-files-eu/eyJwYXRoIjoiZGZpbml0eVwvYWNjb3VudHNcLzAxXC80MDAwMzA0XC9wcm9qZWN0c1wvNFwvYXNzZXRzXC8zOFwvMTc2XC9jZGYwZTJlOTEyNDFlYzAzZTQ1YTVhZTc4OGQ0ZDk0MS0xNjA1MjIyMzU4LnBuZyJ9:dfinity:9Q2_9PEsbPqdJNAQ08DAwqOenwIo7A8_tCN4PSSWkAM?width=2400" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150" />

Author: @Demali-876

> <img src="https://cdn-assets-eu.frontify.com/s3/frontify-enterprise-files-eu/eyJwYXRoIjoiZGZpbml0eVwvYWNjb3VudHNcLzAxXC80MDAwMzA0XC9wcm9qZWN0c1wvNFwvYXNzZXRzXC8zOFwvMTc2XC9jZGYwZTJlOTEyNDFlYzAzZTQ1YTVhZTc4OGQ0ZDk0MS0xNjA1MjIyMzU4LnBuZyJ9:dfinity:9Q2_9PEsbPqdJNAQ08DAwqOenwIo7A8_tCN4PSSWkAM?width=2400" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150" />

Reviewer: Resolved in #5062

## Defining a tuple

```motoko
let ghost = ("Motoko", 25);
```

The tuple's type is automatically inferred as `(Text, Nat)`, since `"Motoko"` is of type [`Text`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Text) and `25` is of type [`Nat`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Nat). 

```motoko
let ghost : (Text, Nat) = ("Motoko", 25);
```

:::info [Support for one length tuples]
Motoko **does not** support length-one tuples. This is in contrast to languages such as Python, where a trailing comma differentiates a single-element tuple from a simple parenthesized value. In Motoko, `(x)` is always just `x`.
:::

## Accessing elements

Elements are accessed using `.n` where `n` is the index (0-based indexing).

```motoko no-repl
// Ghost is a tuple of length 2
let ghost : (firstName : Text, age : Nat) = ("Motoko", 25);
let first = ghost.0; // "Motoko"
let second = ghost.1; // 25
```

## Tuples as function return values

Tuples are useful for returning multiple values from a function without requiring a separate data structure.

```motoko no-repl
func getUserInfo() : (Text, Nat) {
    ("Ghost", 30);
}

getUserInfo();
```

> ## Nesting tuples

Reviewer 2: I would move Nesting tuples to the end, since it relies on pattern matching of tuples.

Tuples can be used to represent coordinate pairs, allowing for structured calculations such as finding the gradient of a line. The gradient (or slope) between two points `$(x_1, y_1)$` and `$(x_2, y_2)$` is calculated using the formula:

$$
m = \frac{y_2 - y_1}{x_2 - x_1}
$$

Using nested tuples, this can be implemented in Motoko as follows:

> ```motoko no-repl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```motoko
```
Actually, try to make all the example no-repl. Even the one that are meant to illustrate type errors are useful, since you'll see the error when run.

Author: If the example does not return a meaningful output, even if it runs, I think it should be no-repl.

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Tuples

> A tuple is a fixed-size, ordered collection of values, where each element can have a different type. Tuples provide a way to group multiple values together without defining a structured data type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tuple is a fixed-size, ordered collection of values, where each element can have a different type. Tuples provide a way to group values by position, without the overhead of defining a record of named fields.
```

Reviewer: Applied

> A tuple is grouped together in parentheses (`value1`, `value2`, `value3`). The type of a tuple is based on the types of its elements, such as ([`Text`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Text), [`Nat`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Nat), [`Bool`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Bool)). The values inside a tuple are evaluated in order from left to right, and if any value causes an error, the entire tuple fails. Tuples are immutable and therefore cannot be changed after instantiation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tuple is grouped together in parentheses (`value1`, `value2`, `value3`). The type of a tuple is based on the types of its elements, such as ([`Text`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Text), [`Nat`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Nat), [`Bool`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Bool)). The values inside a tuple are evaluated in order from left to right. Tuples are immutable and therefore cannot be changed after instantiation.
```

Reviewer: Applied

> A tuple with zero elements is called the **unit value**, written as `()`. It represents an empty result or a no-op return value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A tuple with zero elements is called the **unit value**, written as `()`. It represents a trivial result or token return value.
It's type is the **unit type**, also written `()`.

Unit values are typically used as dummy argument or return values for functions that don't require arguments, or don't produce results (but may produce side-effects).

```

Reviewer: Applied

:::

## Accessing elements

Elements are accessed using `.n` where `n` is the index (0-based indexing).

```motoko no-repl
// Ghost is a tuple of length 2
let ghost : (firstName : Text, age : Nat) = ("Motoko", 25);
let first = ghost.0; // "Motoko"
let second = ghost.1; // 25
```

## Tuples as function return values

Tuples are useful for returning multiple values from a function without requiring a separate data structure.

```motoko no-repl
func getUserInfo() : (Text, Nat) {
    ("Ghost", 30);
}

getUserInfo();
```

## Nesting tuples

Tuples can be used to represent coordinate pairs, allowing for structured calculations such as finding the gradient of a line. The gradient (or slope) between two points `$(x_1, y_1)$` and `$(x_2, y_2)$` is calculated using the formula:

$$
m = \frac{y_2 - y_1}{x_2 - x_1}
$$

Using nested tuples, this can be implemented in Motoko as follows:

```motoko no-repl
// Points is a nested tuple

func calculateGradient(points : ((Float, Float), (Float, Float))) : ?Float {

>     switch (points) {
>         case ((x1, y1), (x2, y2)) {
>             if (x1 == x2) {
>                 null // Gradient is undefined for a vertical line
>             } else {
>                 ?((y2 - y1) / (x2 - x1)) // Wraps the result as an option
>             }
>         };
>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    let ((x1, y1), (x2, y2))  = points;
    if (x1 == x2) {
      null // Gradient is undefined for a vertical line
    } else {
      ?((y2 - y1) / (x2 - x1)) // Wraps the result as an option
    }
}
```

};

let coordinates : ((Float, Float), (Float, Float)) = ((2.0, 3.0), (5.0, 7.0));

let gradient : ?Float = calculateGradient(coordinates);

Debug.print(switch (gradient) {
    case (?m) "Gradient: " # debug_show(m);
    case null "Gradient is undefined.";
});
```

## Using tuples in collections

> Tuples can be stored in arrays or other data structures. Tuples can be structured with named types, improving readability and type safety. By naming the tuple types in the collection, the intent of each field is clear, reducing ambiguity when accessing values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tuples can be stored in arrays or other data structures. Tuples can be constructed with named types, improving readability and type safety. By naming the types in the tuple in the collection, the intent of each component is clarified, reducing ambiguity.
```

Reviewer: Applied

```motoko no-repl
let users : [(Text, Nat)] = [("Motoko", 25), ("Ghost", 30)];
```

This structure efficiently represents a collection of key-value pairs without requiring a dedicated [record](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/types/records) type.

## Extracting values using switch

> To access the name of the first [record](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/types/records) in the tuple using best practices, a [`switch`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/fundamentals/control-flow/switch) expression should be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As well as the dot notation, tuple can be decomposed using tuple patterns. Combined with `let` or `switch`, this let you access the components of a tuple by simple pattern matching.
```

Reviewer: Applied

```motoko no-repl
let users : [(Text, Nat)] = [("Motoko", 25), ("Ghost", 30)];

let firstUserName : Text = switch (users[0]) {
    case (name, _) name; // Motoko
};
```

> The array `users` contains tuples, where each tuple represents a user with a [`Text`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Text) name and a [`Nat`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Nat) age. `users[0]` retrieves the first tuple in the array. The `switch` expression extracts only the name while ignoring the second element using the wildcard pattern (`_`). This ensures clarity and type safety when working with tuples inside collections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The array `users` contains tuples, where each tuple represents a user with a [`Text`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Text) name and a [`Nat`](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/motoko/base/Nat) age. `users[0]` retrieves the first tuple in the array. The `let` pattern extracts only the name while ignoring the second element using the wildcard pattern (`_`). 
```
